c structures summary. Structures are user-defined data types in C that can contain a collection of related data items of different data types. A structure is defined using the struct keyword followed by a name and a block of declarations for its members. For example, struct point { int x; int y; }; defines a structure named point that has two integer members x and y. A structure variable is declared by specifying the name of the structure and the name of the variable. For example, struct point my_point; declares a variable named my_point of type point. A structure variable's members can be accessed using the dot (.) operator. For example, to assign values to the members of my_point, you can write my_point.x = 5; and my_point.y = 10;. A pointer to a structure can be declared using the struct keyword followed by the name of the structure and a * symbol. For example, struct point *p; declares a pointer to a structure of type point. To access a member of a structure through a pointer, use the arrow (->) operator. For example, to assign a value to the x member of a structure pointed to by p, you can write p->x = 3;. Structures can be passed to functions by value or by reference. When passed by value, the entire structure is copied to a new location in memory. When passed by reference, a pointer to the structure is passed, allowing the function to directly modify the original structure. Structures can be used to create more complex data structures, such as linked lists and trees, by including pointers to other structures as members.
